INTRODUCTION: Obesity is variably associated with treatment response in biologic-treated patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). We evaluated the association between obesity and risk of hospitalization, surgery, or serious infections in patients with IBD in new users of biologic agents in a large, multicenter, electronic health record (EHR)-based cohort (CA-IBD). METHODS: We created an EHR-based cohort of adult patients with IBD who were new users of biologic agents (tumor necrosis factor [TNF-alpha] antagonists, ustekinumab, and vedolizumab) between January 1, 2010, and June 30, 2017, from 5 health systems in California. Patients were classified as those with normal body mass index (BMI), overweight, or obese based on the World Health Organization classification. We compared the risk of all-cause hospitalization, IBD-related surgery, or serious infections among patients with obesity vs those overweight vs those with normal BMI, using Cox proportional hazard analyses, adjusting for baseline demographic, disease, and treatment characteristics. RESULTS: Of 3,038 biologic-treated patients with IBD (69% with Crohn's disease and 76% on TNF-alpha antagonists), 28.2% (n = 858) were overweight, and 13.7% (n = 416) were obese. On a follow-up after biologic initiation, obesity was not associated with an increased risk of hospitalization (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] vs normal BMI, 0.90; [95% confidence interval, 0.72-1.13]); IBD-related surgery (aHR, 0.62 [0.31-1.22]); or serious infection (aHR, 1.11 [0.73-1.71]). Similar results were observed on stratified analysis by disease phenotype (Crohn's disease vs ulcerative colitis) and index biologic therapy (TNF-alpha antagonists vs non-TNF-alpha antagonists). DISCUSSION: In a multicenter, EHR-based cohort of biologic-treated patients with IBD, obesity was not associated with hospitalization, surgery, or serious infections. Further studies examining the effect of visceral obesity on patient-reported and endoscopic outcomes are needed.